
# __Net Neutrality__
#### *Stakeholders*
Internet Service Provider Corporations (ISP) such as Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile etc.

Federal Communications Commission (FCC) - the government agency who would be in charge of repealing net neutrality.

The Internet Association - a grouping of large tech companies such as Google, Netflix, Facebook etc that have publicly stated that it would join a legal battle against the FCC. Other smaller tech startups and companies are also considered stakeholders in this issue.

Members of Congress, both Democratic and Republican, for whom net neutrality is an issue of either a committee they are on or who are up for re-election.

The general public, consumers of the Internet, who would be affected by legislation of net neutrality.

#### *Core Beliefs*
Internet Service Provider Corporations (ISP): Internet Service Providers are mostly publicly traded corporations and as such their main motive is to make their shareholder money. As such their position on net neutrality is the one that they believe would make them the most money: repeal net neutrality because it would allow them to charge higher rates for accessing bandwidth intensive website such as video streaming.

Federal Communications Commission (FCC): The Federal Communications Commission is composed of partisan commissioners and a partisan chairman who largely set the agenda of the Federal Communications Commission. As such their core beliefs tend to reflect those of the people that appointed and confirmed them (the President and Congress respectively). Their position on the net neutrality thus is largely reflectively of their party’s stance and since 2/4 commissioners and the current chairman are republicans they want to repeal net neutrality.

The Internet Association: like the Internet Service Providers these are companies, many of which are publicly traded, and thus their main belief or purpose is to earn profits for their shareholders. However, unlike the Internet Service Providers, they oppose the repeal of net neutrality because it would take away power from them and give it to the Internet Service Providers thus hindering their ability to make profit.

Members of Congress: Members of Congress are widely varied on their core beliefs with Republican members on average tending to favor business interests and Democrat members on average tending to favor consumer protections. As such their positions on net neutrality are largely opposite: Republicans tend to favor repealing it while Democrats tend to favor keeping it.

The General Public: like Members of Congress the general public’s core beliefs vary widely and as such the general public’s position on net neutrality tends to follow the Members of Congress for whom they support.

## ___Analysis___
### *Opposition to Deplatforming*
The largest point that individuals against deplatforming make is that it violates an individual’s First Amendment Rights. People cannot say their true opinions on online platforms because if those opinions are deemed to be against the terms of service for a certain platform, that individual can get kicked off with little to no warning, no matter how hateful their content may have been. Additionally, once deplatformed, individuals cannot easily contact people at the respective social media corporations and are often met with automatic replies if they try to reach out to resolve this issue. This leaves those individuals who have been deplatformed with very little options and very little clarity as to how and when they can get back online.
Matt Bracken claims that a majority of individuals that get deplatformed are Christian, white, heterosexual males who are being targeted simply because they fit those demographics and that no one is looked at more closely than people within that particular group. He also compares deplatforming to government censorship under the veneer of private corporations because though it’s corporations like Twitter and Facebook that are deplatforming people, they are cutting off the microphones of those they deplatform which is essentially what government censorship would do.
Finally, those opposed to deplaforming claim that it is happening to hide “the truth” about controversial issues and keep people on the internet “brainwashed” to believe certain things, especially the opposition to traditional family values.

### *Proponents of Deplatforming*
The intention of deplatforming is to decrease the amount of hateful and discriminatory content that is published on the internet. For individuals who are directly referenced and impacted by content that is harmful, deplatforming is clearly a positive thing. Although it does limit the freedom of what people can say and do on the internet, it is for the protection of those who are in a vulnerable position due to it. Websites generally have a clear set of rules of what is and is not allowed to be posted on their site, so content that violates these regulations is removed, along with the individual who posted it. This is essential in preventing the spread of untrue and hateful information, which is something that many people believe is a responsibility of websites. From a perspective of a company that runs one of these platforms, deplatforming is essential in maintaining public approval. Companies will generally have ideologies that dictate what they allow and do not allow on their websites, and these are often times greatly influenced by the views of the public. From a business standpoint, companies benefit most by acting in favor of what the public wants. In cases of hateful or harmful content, the company itself does best by censoring or deleting it. If a platform like YouTube or Twitter allowed a user to continually post discriminatory material, much of the public would respond by ceasing to use their product. While there likely is a strong preference for the wellbeing of the users of their website, a large part of this may be due to the harm their business could face if the companies did not act in this way.

### *Confucian Interpretation*
While there could be points made both for and against deplatforming from the standpoint of the ethical framework of Confucianism, overall, it would lean in favor of deplatforming. One of the major reasons for this belief is because one of Confucianism’s core teachings is the universality of actions, where a person should only take or believe in an action if that person would also be okay with everyone else taking or believing in that same action. One of the primary reasons given by proponents of deplatforming as to why deplatforming is right is that it will help to decrease hateful messages and rhetoric against certain groups of people. This fits with Confucianism in that the people posting hateful rhetoric should only be doing so in the first place if they would be okay with everyone else posting similar things about them online. In this way, deplatforming would help to stop these people from posting hateful and threatening messages without considering if they would be willing to receive those same messages in return.
Another main reason that Confucianism would support the deplatforming side of this debate is because one of the other primary beliefs of Confucianism, which is respect and right treatment of others. While deplatforming would obviously not stop those whose hateful messages would be blocked from thinking hateful things, it would at least keep the intended recipients from seeing or hearing them. In this way, the basic respect that should be showed to all people would not be forced upon the people who lack it in the first place, but would be further given to the people who are being targeted, by keeping them from having to deal with hateful and threatening rhetoric online. While this does not solve the problem of hateful rhetoric, it helps the intended victims maintain a more consistent peace of mind.

## ___A Proposition___
### *Echo Chambers*
Online echo chambers are generally seen as communities full of people that share the same, or at least very similar, opinions. When they share their opinions, they reinforce each others beliefs, strengthening their resolve behind that opinion. Dissenting opinions are struck down quickly, ganged up on, or straight up not allowed. The hidden algorithms behind popular social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram essentially create personalized echo chambers. People follow others they like or who share similar opinions, and thus their feed is filled with those opinions. Targeted advertisements analyzes your feed, cookies, and search history to send you advertisements that you may like - these will likely not be for products or opinions different than your own. The longer the service is used, the more personalized the feed becomes. Algorithms, intended to increase engagement, do so by consistently personalizing and recommending similar content. However, people who look for content on their own tend to be less affected by echo chambers, while people who look for content based on what’s popular are more strongly influenced. Further, people who are more social or younger in age also tend to more easily fall into echo chambers.

### *Deplatforming Attempts*
Neo-Nazi, white supremacist, and alt-right website The Daily Stormer recently had its had their domain revoked and thus website taken down by numerous internet service providers due to their hateful commentary and extremism. All of these providers, including GoDaddy, Google, and Cloudflare, were making a statement about what is and isn’t acceptable. However, this made numerous people call them out for being hypocritical by still hosting other harassment sites. It also made people wonder whether domain registrants policing the internet and what affect it may have on free speech. Alex Jones and his InfoWars platform were also removed from numerous popular sites like Youtube, Twitter, Facebook, Apple, Spotify, PayPal, and more. He was, like The Daily Stormer, deplatformed because of hate speech and harassment. And like the ban of The Daily Stormer, it rose questions about free speech and whether these sites were pushing their own agenda. Some other notable groups and figures that have been banned lately include Milo Yiannopoulos, the Proud Boys, Richard Spencer, and more. While the general public has had a positive reaction to these bans, it has definitely resulted in questions being raised about what is and isn’t allowed on these platforms, about free speech, about whether some groups get preferential or unfair treatment, and for calls in consistency to how different groups are handled.

### *Deplatforming and its Affect on Echo Chambers*
Deplatforming definitley has an effect on online echo chambers, the caveat lies in whether the act contributes to the diminishing or promotion of echo chambers. In the context we’ve largely been speaking of through this post, deplatforming often comes as a means to control the flow of hate speech, and thus is intended to diminish the prevalence of echo chambers. In the case of The Daily Stromer, ISPs greatly diminished the role of the website in facilitating echo chambers. This is because they could ban the entire website itself, removing the central place for its users to congregate and preventing its content from being shared across the internet. However this benevolent outcome only caters to those who view it as benevolent, and it’s especially volatile to expect this result when the action is making a statement about free speech. While some cases of deplatforming can diminish echo chambers, there is always the risk of creating new, more intense echo chambers as a response. Take the Alex Jones case for example. Being someone who antagonizes the “Left”, his deplatforming can be seen as politically motivated, especially when his hate speech aligns with current political tensions such as the role of Muslims in America. While the content of Alex Jones may no longer be available on commonly used social media platforms, the argument can be made that the echo chamber his content contributed to only grew. Jones’s viewers don’t stop watching his content, rather they promote a narrative where there is a war on free speech and tech companies work only to promote the values of the “Left”. In the eyes of those in this echo chamber, this isn’t an attempt from the likes of Facebook to combat hate speech, it’s a way for them to abuse their overwhelming power to promote their own political agenda. Should we expect the group feeling victimized by this to rest silently? Side-effects of deplatforming are inevitable, if we want to estimate the impact it may have on echo chambers, then it’s important to understand how those in the echo chamber will view the act. 
